When it comes to the interview.
I can't say specifically
how it's gonna ask.
I can talk at a high level about some of
the things we're probably gonna dig into.
And there it's very different from
a software engineering interview.
But the interview itself is gonna be very
custom and bespoke to the company or
culture, whatever they're looking for.
Some example questions have
on the leadership part,
describe your management philosophy.
You should have one,
even if you're not a manager yet,
you should probably have a philosophy
on how you wanna lead people.
I did, mine is very much the cheerleader,
the I wanna advance my team,
I wanna grow them.
That's really important to me.
But that's one of my philosophies.
Everybody has something
a little bit different.
What does influencing it
without authority mean?
Remember we talked earlier about
you can't make anybody do anything.
So you have to influence them
to make the right decisions, but
even if you don't have the authority, so
that means your partners, your customers,
things like that.
Partnerships, you've
gotta work with somebody.
How do you make sure they're
delivering for you and for your team?
What are strategies you deploy there?
How do you deliver results for
your partners?
How do you find out what
they need from you?
I'll tell you, the quickest way to get
fired at a company is to not deliver for
your partners and they start
saying bad things to your manager.
This person's not reliable.
Their team's not delivering.
It happens really quickly.
It can happen suddenly.
You have to make sure
your partners are happy.
And to do that, you have to
understand what is important to them.
On the technical side,
when it comes to project prioritization,
you're gonna have to do that.
What's your strategy for
figuring that out?
Who do you talk to?
What's your methodology for
understanding what's important right now?
And in general,
how do you think about prioritization?
How do you think about what's important
right now, what's important next week, and
what's not important?
So these are the type of questions that
will come up in a management interview
that if you hadn't thought of them until
now, well, now you have, hopefully.
There isn't necessarily one right answer.
Everybody's gonna have a little bit
different, and sometimes they're your
philosophy, maybe not the right way for
the role, maybe it is.
But again, it's important to have
thought of these ahead of time and
just think internally about yourself.
So now let's let's cover something
you probably don't see very often,
which is,
what does it look like to interview for
a real life with a real life manager for
a role?
And again, we're gonna be talking to Ryan
Burgess, who's done, think hundreds and
hundreds of interviews in his life.
For interviewing candidates,
I think he said over 800 the other day,
he's talked to 800 people
in his time as a manager.
But we're gonna do a manager interview and
we're gonna to cover some of the questions
you'll probably get and we're gonna
learn how he thinks about them.
Solving these conflicts and
answering questions, and
get some of his wisdom here.
To kick it off, Ryan, in 2016,
you hired me to Netflix as
a senior software engineer.
How are you feeling about
that decision right now?
>> Feeling pretty good, Jem.
I think I made a good choice.
You've been a long-tenured employee
at Netflix and, definitely have been
a high performer as an engineer and
now as an engineering manager.
So, probably a good choice.
I think I did a good job, yeah.
>> Yeah, good job, I agree.
>> Good job.
>> Good job, everybody [LAUGH].
But true story, Ryan did hire me
to Netflix all those years ago and
helped inspire me to become a manager.
So how the tables have turned now
that I'm interviewing you for a role.
>> This will be good, Jem.
>> So question one about your style,
Bryan Burgess,
describe your leadership philosophy.
>> Yeah, it's a tough question.
And I know I like that you said
prepare for that ahead of time,
I think that's good.
I think the way I would describe
maybe my philosophy on leadership or
my approach is probably the best way to
describe it is empathetic leadership.
Which means many things I feel like
I've talked about it earlier in some
of your questions about being able
to lean in on people or read and
observe that way but also being
flexible i think is another thing.
Being able to adapt and to different
changes and things or styles of
other people and how they work is likely
the best way to describe how I lead.
>> Empathetic leadership, yeah, and how do
you see empathetic leadership playing out
with your team and your partners?
>> Yeah, I feel as with both as team and
partners a big thing to effectively
as a leader or as a partner or
just being in a team Is building trust.
And so
I think on a human connected people level,
I find I'm able to do
that fairly effectively.
I can build trust, just foster
that collaboration really well and
also be willing to make mistakes myself.
But also be accepting of other
people's mistakes, not get frustrated.
And it's a good way for us to learn, and
grow as a team or a partnering team.
So I think that's how it really shows
up for my partnerships or with my team.
>> Pretty good, we're gonna move you
on to round two congratulations.
>> Thank goodness.
>> It was close, but.
>> Could have done better but yeah, sure.
>> You've got some credit, so I'll let
you pass questions here around the team.
How do you create the best
team environment?
And what does the best team
environment look like?
>> These are both good questions.
Definitely building trust,
encouraging trust.
I'm going back to that one cuz I
think if you do not trust your team,
they don't trust you,
they don't trust each other.
It's not gonna work, so that's
a really important aspect of it being
able to communicate with one another
share things that aren't going well.
So encouraging that vulnerability
even in yourself to say
hey here's mistakes I've made, or
being able to even celebrate mistakes
within the team I think is so important.
Making sure that people don't feel
that they're scared to make mistake.
Yeah, I don't want people to
be scared to make a mistake.
Yes, if you're making the same
mistake over and over again,
that's a different story.
But we want to be able to iterate and
learn.
And so that's something I wanna
foster in that culture of a team.
And yeah, I think that's the best way
you can kind of evolve as a team.
>> And what's your ideal team culture?
What does that look like?
>> The ideal team culture is gotta
throw the word trust in there again.
But it's a trusting collaborative
team that is effective and
works well together as a unit, but
is also effective individuals.
So there's effective individuals
who are high performing, but
they also work very collaboratively
together and with partnering teams.
>> Pretty good answers,
better than round one.
So we're gonna pass you on to
the next round, congratulations.
>> Well done, all right.
>> Let's walk through a scenario here,
common scenario,
two members of the team disagree
about a technology solution.
The disagreement has gotten so heated that
it spilled over the team meetings and
people are starting to take sides.
Tell me how would you
resolve the situation?
>> This has never happened.
Never seen two engineers disagree on it.
>> Never.
>> I also like that you called out
spilling out over team I think that
changes maybe the scenario a bit.
But yeah, we all have
disagreements on technologies or
approaches I think in this scenario it
sounds like it's maybe gotten a little bit
heated It's likely causing a little bit of
maybe toxicity or tension within the team.
So my first thinking here would be
to pull aside the two engineers with
a disagreement, maybe help understand
where each of them are coming from.
How how hard of a disagreement is,
this is it true conflict or
is it maybe one where they're just trying
to see it from different sides and
maybe can work it out themselves?
If they can work it out themselves, what
I'm gonna do is probably encourage them to
work together to outline
their perspectives.
Probably put it in
a form of a memo to then
articulate the trade-offs
with the two approaches.
Maybe even they come to a conclusion,
maybe they don't, but
then bring that back to the team to have
a more healthier debate within the team.
So that would be an approach there.
I mean, if it's a super heated
debate between the two of them,
it might be me having to mediate
between the two of them.
And there's just,
it really depends on the situation.
>> Yeah, it's complicated,
but good answer.
Scenario two, you've observed over the
past few months that a member of your team
has been missing deadlines and
the projects they have shipped
have a number of issues and bugs.
What's your approach to
this type of situation?
So I'm gonna assume that this person,
maybe it's not the norm for them.
So I'm gonna assume that this is something
that has just started happening,
it wasn't happening before.
I might trying to decide is
this a new area for them?
Maybe they're dealing with some new
challenges that in a technical way that
I'm aware of that, hey, they are thrown
in a bit more on the deep end.
So I might have some empathy towards that,
but I wanna talk with the person, right?
I wanna really understand what's going on.
So I'm gonna in a one-on-one brings
this into their attention, say hey,
have observed that you've
been missing deadlines.
You're having some issues that are showing
up in your code or what you're shipping,
it's just not the quality
that it normally is.
Do you feel that?
Or I wanna put something back on them
to say how do they feel about it?
Are they recognizing that?
Do they feel that?
Maybe they weren't aware,
but maybe they are aware,
and then understand why,
I can't answer that for them.
Maybe there's some external factors,
they have family issues, who knows?
There's many factors
that could be at play or
maybe it's just something that they've
never dealt with in their career.
And so that could change my approach too
is if they're needing just some time off,
maybe they're burnt out, or
maybe they need some extra time to deal
with a family situation, that could be it.
Maybe they don't know that technical.
Or that area of expertise for them,
maybe I can pair them up with
someone to help them learn that.
Maybe they just have troubles estimating,
that's another thing.
So it really depends on the situation,
but my approach is really much to try and
understand their perspective of it too.
And also it's probably setting
expectations, we need to address,
this can't continue to happen because
clearly it's causing problems where we're
missing deadlines.
And I wanna work with them on that
as if this is a hard expectation for
their job critical thing.
They don't make it through this,
if they can't do that job, I mean,
we might have a different conversation.
So I wanna be very clear that
this is an expectation and
then start to work through that with them.
>> I like your approach,
be curious, but set expectations.
That's really important.
So overall I'd say these are good answers,
I'm gonna hire you Ryan.
I think I'm gonna take a chance
on you as an engineering manager.
>> Awesome.
>> Thanks, man.
>> Thanks, Jem.